we see this all this time we see
companies are spending millions and
millions and millions of dollars a month
and we go to them we're like oh you
don't look at your analytics here here
and here we should adjust This and like
we got over a 60 increase in Roi and
still spending the same amount of money
your uh blog you know when I was I think
like 16 years old I've been following
you for you know better part of 15 years
now or so uh I'm curious like you know
in 2023 what do you think it takes to
build remarkable content grow an
audience and really stand out given just
the pace at which the attention economy
is growing you know the crater economy
now is blowing up and there's more and
more people coming online to building
organic content
um you know I was kind of shocked over
the weekend we were both at this event
and it must have been 98 of people it
seemed the core part of their business
growth was all ads and I couldn't help
but think just how risky that is just to
be completely addicted to the ad growth
side of things when
um you know when you're building content
and you're putting it out there you're
truly building your own personal media
Empire around your personal brand and
your business I'm curious how you think
about uh building you know organic
content and standing out in 2023
yeah so I look at that as uh the same
way as Google does double eat also known
as e uh experience expertise Authority
interest everyone can create content
like you can use chat GPT to create
content you can use the Uber says AI
rather create content if everyone's
using the same AI tools to create
content whether it's for social or Tech
space how are you going to stand out
everyone's gonna look like where's Waldo
remember that game from back in the day
where like you would try to find Waldo
because he would stand out wearing that
striped red and uh white striped shirt
but these days everyone looks like Waldo
and you gotta find the people that look
like you and me which is really hard to
do because everyone is just using the
same tools and the same technology to
create their content
so if you can create content that
showcases your experience your expertise
your Authority and trust you can end up
bringing a whole new perspective to a
topic
You're Gonna Stand Out and that's how
you're going to build a community that's
how you're going to do well in the long
run but that's super hard to do
for most people because they're not
willing to just take out their phone and
start recording they're stuck in the
ways of what's the fastest way to create
content what's the most automated way
it's not actually hard from uh you know
mental standpoint it's hard for me it
just takes time bust out your phone
start talking break down stuff that only
you would know or very few people would
know because of something that you
experience or you've done in your uh
current life while other people couldn't
do this if they used AI to create
content so are there any examples online
you know of different brands you're
seeing or different people online that
you're like damn that person's on like
the bleeding edge of you know where uh
you know online branding audience growth
like original content are kind of going
for a personal side there's a guy named
Alex uh hermosi which is worth checking
out he's been doing some really cool
stuff uh there's another person named
Cody Sanchez she's been doing a really
good job as well for sure
and in terms of
uh you know when you kind of look back
on you know your career you know when
you were younger maybe getting going at
like 20 21 22 what would you have told
like your younger self like getting
started of you know maybe some key
mistakes you know we've all been there a
bad partnership or a co-founder issue or
what whatever it may be right um I know
I certainly had a host of mistakes that
I would love to go back and change
curious how you think about that Focus
that was the biggest mistake I made try
doing too many things at once always
trying to find a new shiny object to
make money from instead of just focusing
on the business focusing what I'm good
at and just executing on that and
everything else being a distraction
that's what I really wish
um I did long long time ago and I didn't
uh it's not too late though I'm 38 now
so I can focus now on which I have been
doing over the last five years the other
big mistake is picking too small of a
tam my first few companies were like
Niche businesses and I was like oh the
riches are in the niches that's so true
that I mean that's so false it's like
the opposite of being true uh the riches
are in big massive markets and I wish I
knew that I think there is a quote from
like one of the Google Founders and I'm
paraphrasing it here it's something like
if you can create something that people
have to use each and every single day
you're on to like something big and I'm
paraphrasing here and I'm probably
butchering it so I apologize to
whichever Google founder created that
quote uh
uh but I look at
those two things is probably the reason
I'm not much further along in my career
for sure I know we both are people that
believe you know in the power of
personal Brands you know you brought up
Alex hermosi Cody Sanchez uh you know
you've utilized your personal brand over
the years as well to help you build
multiple Brands and successful
businesses to the tune of you know you
were talking about 10 million dollars
even you've helped bring in uh to your
existing business through the personal
brand like how do you think about
leveraging you know your personal brand
the content around it to drive business
I think it's a great strategy I don't
know why more people don't do it Kylie
Jenner has done a great job Rihanna has
done a great job there's more social
content but you can do a Blog content I
did it back lingo did it his name is
Brian dean of backlinko.com he
eventually sold to sem Rush
the possibilities are endless a Larry
Kim ended up building a site called
wordstream and blogged and built up his
brand and he sold the company I forgot
the amount was public maybe somewhere
around 100 million dollars you can make
a lot of money through personal branding
and people take it for granted they
think you can only do it in b2c works
all in B2B and B to C uh again you just
need to go after a big market doing it
in a small Niche doesn't do that well
and in terms of you know a big value of
yours you talked about you know wanting
to challenge yourself continue to learn
to continually grow under the mindset as
well like if you're not learning you're
dying you know it's important to kind of
constantly be challenging yourself
finding new experiences uh new people
new books that just you know kind of
bring you on to new ways of thinking and
surrounding yourself with people also
that are challenging you I'm curious uh
based on kind of where you're at any
books that have helped you or any key
learnings you've gotten over the last
kind of six months that really
transformed your way of thinking
um and what do you feel like in terms of
over the next year is like the next
challenge the next next big like
learning opportunity that you're really
leaning into yeah so notebooks in the
last six months has changed the way I
thought there's a lot of good books out
there from like art of the start by Guy
Kawasaki the dip by Seth God and
principles by Ray dalio those are all
books that people should check out
for me what I like doing is I like
learning by just being on Instagram
Facebook YouTube research any topic that
you're interested in whether it's
mindset meditation whether it's a new
business idea or learning about an
industry or just learning about history
you can find all this stuff online
digest it super quick and you can keep
moving on on to the next topic that
you're interested in learning about and
if you find something that intrigues you
double down on it but that's what I
would say in which people can learn a
lot just from the web
just from social you can literally find
almost anything on YouTube and learn
there you don't need to go to college if
you want to be a doctor I understand
some professions is required but just go
on YouTube and learn and what do you
think is kind of one of the bigger sort
of hidden opportunities right now 2023
moving to 2024 from a sort of marketing
audience growth content standpoint sure
so one of the big hidden opportunities
and this will answer also part of your
last question because I believe you also
asked what am I trying to learn over the
next six months for me I'm trying to
learn quite a bit of
about Ai and I think that's where also a
lot of the opportunities is going to be
in the future I'm going to talk about AI
like Terminator the movie cell I'm
talking about AI in which how can you
automate a lot of systems and processes
and make the world just much more
efficient place and AI should help a lot
of businesses do that and as humans if
we push away a I believe what's going to
happen is you're going to get replaced
but if you embrace it you'll be more in
demand because companies will be looking
for people who understand how to use Ai
and how to integrate it within their
systems and processes and based on your
research there so far I know you know
we're beyond the stage of just you know
prompting chai gbt that's kind of what
you're seeing online everyone talking
about that kind of more rudimentary
stuff but you know now we have the
invention of things like Auto gvt one of
the most viral projects right now on
GitHub I'm curious where do you kind of
see it affecting some of your businesses
are there specific systems that you see
it kind of taking to the next level and
helping automate and make it easier
first yeah like analytics is a great
example imagine or let's go back how
many companies spend billions of dollars
a year hundreds of Millions on
Advertising a lot just look at Google's
market cap Facebook's market cap imagine
instead of people analyzing analytics
once a week or once a month and try to
draw insights and figure out what to
change imagine if in real time AI was
helping flag where's there's waste and
where things are going really well and
sends it to human and then you can click
some binds and then reallocate money
there would be such there be a much
better Roi in a lot of marketing
campaigns we see this all the time we
see companies are spending millions and
millions and millions of dollars a month
and we got him we're like oh you don't
look at your analytics here here and
here we should adjust This and like wow
wow we got over a 60 increase in Roi and
still spending the same amount of money
well
that's great but you went two years
without that imagine how much money was
wasted over the last two years right so
yeah that analytic side of things yeah
is one big opportunity is there anything
else you see it kind of disrupting in
your sphere or in the marketing space
that you know you're paying close
attention to
creative so an advertising
creatives is one of the biggest piece of
Leverage AI can help you crank out a
thousand versions of creative and you
can end up seeing what's converting
better and then you can go in there and
fine-tune the ones that work the best
manually that's going to be a huge
disruption uh another one is going to be
systems and processes there's a lot of
mundane tasks that people are doing like
exporting crunching numbers and creating
reports a lot of that could be done with
AI uh
uh in SEO you're gonna see AI do a lot
of the on-page changes over time
um because AI can even start creating
code right why can't it just go and fix
the issues and then you just double
check as a human and then upload the
changes yeah I've been playing a lot
around a lot with uh mid-journey and uh
feeding at different prompts playing
around with different things whether
it's for social or thumbnails and things
like different graphics for my blog uh
and it's yeah it's crazy just to see the
potential where it's at and to think
that you know it's it's really
compounding at an insane rate as well
it'd be you know crazy to see how not
just the system side the process side
but also on the creative end of things
how disruptive this new technology is
going to be I'm curious It's like you're
kind of like you know you work with tons
of Founders you've been a Founder now
for 20 years what are some of like the
most common mistakes that you're seeing
people make these days uh when it comes
to looking to grow their brand grow
Their audience online the big mistake is
them not using all the channels they're
like oh I love Tick Tock I love it so
use all the channel UPS don't be relying
on one the second one is they're not
consistent enough they'll post content
they'll get some traction they'll post
some more they don't get the traction
they're looking for the next week and
they just stop being consistent it
really is about being consistent the
third thing is looking at their
analytics seeing what's hitting for you
and your competition learning from it to
give you ideas on what you should be
doing to build up audience the fourth
one is responding to your community and
building one a lot of people have
comments and they're getting engagement
from social but what they're not doing
is they're not responding to people
engaging and building those
relationships I don't understand why but
those are some of the big mistakes that
we're seeing people make when it comes
to building their brand right and so
when you think about like get
consistency I think where a lot of
Founders get caught up is in this kind
of content hamster wheel you know
they're they're trying to create content
for multiple platforms oftentimes like
they have a good idea maybe of what they
want to create
um but you know they're just falling
behind they're trying to make a tick
tock one day long from YouTube the other
and quickly feel like they're just
simply drowning in the level of content
they need to be making based on your
experience like what systems do you
think are important to have in place and
also the mindset to have in place to get
off that content hamster wheel and build
a sustainable sort of audience growth
system around you Gary vaynerchuk has a
Content repurposing framework uh that
was online I'm pretty sure it's still
online go and follow it so for example
if you have a long form video you don't
have to create the short form you can
slice and dice the long form and make
short forms out of this even before this
podcast interview I'm like hey send me
the recording and we'll plug you and
we'll put it online why because my team
can slice the dice make long form from
it they can make short form from it they
can even transcribe some of the stuff
I'm saying create a blog post from it I
can take some of the things and turn it
into many podcast episodes It's endless
but I'm taking one longer piece of
content and making tons of smaller
pieces of content versus creating a long
piece of content then five small pieces
and then writing a blog post and then
recording a podcast like you can do it
all at once yeah no I'm big on that
there's kind of like a Content waterfall
and you have yeah your pillar piece of
content could be something like a
podcast like this and being able to kind
of like you said slice and dice that
into your tick tocks your IG reels your
YouTube shorts you know shorter form
YouTube videos and then yeah translate
that to to uh text as well whether
Twitter LinkedIn carousels you know Etc
it's kind of yeah being efficient and
mapping out first things first that
whole kind of content system and
waterfall so that you're getting the
most bang for your buck and you're able
to get off that content hamster wheel
and scale your time and buy it back I'm
curious on the analytics side of things
you know there's a lot of different
tools that I use to kind of find you
know the most viral content out there
from others whether it's using tools
like twemx on Twitter taplio on LinkedIn
and finding kind of what content's
really Rising on those platforms are
there any tools that you like to use to
kind of find you know what competitors
are putting out there in your space and
what's really popping off in your kind
of like marketing Niche and then
Translating that to how you then think
about your own content strategy so you
already mentioned a lot of the get tools
out there the other one I would add is
socialblade so then you can look at
people's follower accounts and see who's
growing the fastest that'll give you an
idea of whose contents are resonating
the most so not just who's getting views
but what piece of
who's creating content that's resonating
that's causing people to actually want
to follow them hence building a
community uh and then follow those
people as well and look at their content
and learn from it is there some sort of
like I've used socialblade and I'm also
oftentimes looking at others and looking
at you know my own growth day to day and
I'm curious is there some sort of like
leaderboard as well in socialblade or
something where you can see rising stars
or you know people that are training or
you just have to go kind of like one by
one and input their information into
social blade one by one input the
information uh and what I also like
doing too is I like looking at ads with
the public 15 of all Google searches
have never been searched before just
think about that for a minute there's
billions of searches 15 have never been
searched before even though Google's
been around 20 plus years
it tells you what's up and coming right
now before it's competitive the other
one that I like looking at is Brian Dean
had I'll actually look it up right now
uh
uh exploding topics
yeah so that's another one I'm like I'm
forgetting the name I don't know why I
was playing but it's showing you what's
up and coming and what's booming right
now and that's really cool too these two
tools will help you come up with ideas
on what to create your content around
that people are curious about but a lot
of people aren't necessarily uh have
talked about before